That's enough, Dad. Go home.
Leave it to me and Yudhis.
I can do this.
Please, Dad.
-Okay?
-Let's just go home, Dad.
Let Saras handle it.
Okay, fine. I'll go home.
Here, a dry shirt.
Bye, Yudhis.
Seriously?
It was an accident.
No, it wasn't!
Hey!
INSPIRED BY A TRUE STORY
FROM THE PODCAST LENTERA MALAM
Allahu akbar.
Sami allahu liman hamidah.
Wake up.
You stink. Go take a shower!
You missed, idiot.
Coffee, Dad.
Saras!
The water's out again!
Enjoy your meal, Dad.
You look pale, Dad.
Do you want to see a doctor?
I'm fine.
It's better to spend the money
fixing the pump.
Your health is more important.
The pump can wait.
Let's go.
Dad.
Sweetie.
Am I weighing you down?
Of course not, Dad.
Since Mom passed away,
you've worked hard
so Yudhis and I could live well.
But…
I lost the restaurant.
The hardware store's closed.
All my businesses failed.
All that's left is the car wash
that I can pass down to you.
Sometimes, I wonder
if I had--
"If I had been a good father to my kids."
-Right?
-Dhis.
He says that once a week.
I've memorized it.
When I die,
I want to be buried in the village
where I was born.
I've also asked Uncle Setyo
to bury me following Islamic customs.
Of course.
What other faith is there to follow?
Did you forget that you're Muslim?
I'm kidding, Saras.
Dad.
That's my will.
Don't you want to be buried here
next to Mom?
She won't have anyone to talk to.
It's my turn to be serious.
I seriously have to go.
Peace be upon you, Dad.
And upon you.
Yudhis, wait.
You go by taxi.
You should rest up
if you're not feeling well.
Yudhis and I can manage the car wash.
I'm okay.
Yudhis!
Yudhis, wait!
Dad.
Take it easy today.
There's still time.
WARSITO CAR WASH
Saras.
What?
What does this mean?
It means we have to go home early.
Dad's cooking.
Let's close up and go home.
Are you serious?
We haven't made anything today
because we had no customers.
A customer.
Hello. Just a wash or wash and wax?
A wash, please. How late are you open?
Three of my friends are coming too.
-We can handle it.
-We're open 24 hours today.
-It's 24 hours? I'll tell my friends then.
-No worries.
-Got it.
-Thanks.
-You can leave your keys.
-Right.
Your time is up.
What's this?
Come on. Dad is waiting for us.
Right.
Peace be upon you, Dad.
-Peace be upon you.
-Dad?
Dinner.
Dad?
Yudhis.
-Dad?
-Lift him up.
Wake up, Dad. What happened?
-Dad.
Dad.
Wake up, Dad.
Dad! Wake up.
Dad!
-Dad.
-Dad!
-Don't leave me, Dad!
Don't leave us, Dad.
Stay strong, okay?
-Stay strong.
-Dad's inside.
I'll go in.
So is Dad really gone?
I thought--
He's gone, Saras.
Is he really, Yudhis?
Yes, Saras.
Let Dad go, Saras.
It's so you won't feel suffocated.
Dad wasn't feeling well,
but he still made dinner.
If we had gone to the doctor, he'd still--
Saras.
Let him go.
Please?
Maybe we should respect Dad's will.
Once a month, we visit Mom's grave.
We pray for her together. You, Dad, and I.
Just once a month.
That's the only time
our family gets together.
But if Dad is buried in the village,
we'll lose that tradition.
When will we ever be together again
now that they're gone?
Saras, it's okay.
Come on. Let's get some rest.
Get ready for tomorrow.
DATE OF BIRTH: FEBRUARY 17TH, 1973
DATE OF DEATH: JULY 10TH
Yudhis.
Uncle.
Stay strong.
Thank you.
Saras is inside.
The hearse is ready.
I'll need your help in a bit.
I'm going in.
Okay.
Rest in peace.
I'll take good care of Saras and Yudhis.
Saras.
Uncle Setyo.
Stay strong.
Aunt Ambar and Dyah didn't come?
They're waiting at home.
Waiting?
I know it's tough for you,
but we must hurry
and move your dad's body tonight.
Tonight?
Yes.
Where will you take him to?
I'm not sure if your dad
mentioned it to you,
but he asked me to bury him
in the village.
He mentioned it before.
-But I--
-The hearse is ready.
-Let's get going--
-Uncle.
I plan to bury Dad in Surabaya,
next to Mom.
But think about your dad.
Uncle, Yudhis and I live here.
I don't want to be away from him.
It's your dad's will.
Don't take it lightly.
Does he have to be buried in the village?
-You must understand, Saras. Your dad--
-Uncle.
I've made my decision.
This is my family, my dad.
I have the final say.
I'm your family too, Saras. Your uncle.
Your dad is my brother.
Yudhis, talk to your sister.
No, Uncle.
I'm with Saras on this.
You can go home if you disagree.
I'm sorry, Uncle.
Allah Almighty has spoken the truth.
-The body is alive.
-My goodness.
It's awake.
-What happened?
-The body is alive.
-My gosh.
Dad?
My goodness. Dad.
Home.
Dad?
-My dad is picking me up.
-Dad?
One lives,
one dies.
My gosh.
-Dad?
-Dad.
Dad?
This is your fault.
Dad!
Yudhis!
Saras.
Dad is gone!
But it's impossible.
Mom!
-What's wrong?
-Dad!
My gosh.
Dear.
Dear!
Coming.
What is that, dear?
Get in.
Can you say that again?
I'm being serious.
I thought it was a dream,
but I saw him walking.
Someone must've moved him.
I saw him walking.
That's impossible!
Okay. Let's get help.
Let's find Dad.
Uncle.
Hello, Yudhis.
It's me, Dyah.
Uncle Hadi's body…
His body is on our porch.
What are you saying?
Wait.
Saras, Dad is in Lamongan.
How?
We've been trying to reach you
to let you know.
Okay. We'll head over there now.
Let's go, Yudhis.
It's strange that Dad's body
ended up at Uncle Setyo's house.
How did it get there?
Did Uncle really take Dad's body at night?
If it comes to this…
This is my fault.
I ignored Dad's will.
Now I'm getting punished.
What matters now is fulfilling his will.
It doesn't have to be in Surabaya.
The village is fine too.
I just want to give Dad a burial.
Saras.
Saras, Yudhis.
Did you take Dad's body?
I told you, Saras. It's tradition
to do the burial in the village.
Be honest! He couldn't just appear here.
Saras.
It was I who found his body.
After coming back from Surabaya,
he stayed with me all night.
Peace be upon you.
-And upon you peace, Ustad Zuhri.
-And upon you.
Saras, Yudhis, this is Ustad Zuhri.
He will lead the tahlil prayer.
These are Hadi's kids.
They're from Surabaya.
Okay.
This village isn't far from Surabaya,
but the roads are pretty bad.
Yes, Auntie.
Yudhis.
-Saras.
Just lie down.
I want to see Uncle.
Take it easy.
I'll help set things up
for tahlil prayers.
Yudhis, stay with your sister.
Saras.
Take it easy.
This was your old bedroom.
It's a little different,
but it still has the same bed.
And the same wardrobe.
Right.
You lived here with Mom and Dad, right?
Hearing you say that made me realize
we no longer have our parents.
Yudhis, Saras.
I'll go help out my mom.
Two nights have passed.
Get some sleep, Saras.
Who drew this?
Me.
When Mom was pregnant with you,
we fought over your name.
Dad wanted Arga.
I wanted Sakti.
But after Mom passed,
we picked the name she wanted.
I was five when we moved to Surabaya.
But I remember the good times we had here.
At least
you've got memories of Mom and this house.
I have none.
We moved to Surabaya because Mom
had issues while pregnant with you.
Dad wanted to be sure
that both you and Mom would be okay.
But it didn't work out.
I was born, and Mom died.
Stop.
Dad and I kept this to ourselves
so you wouldn't blame yourself.
It's too late.
I already feel that way.
Come on. Get to work.
Now that's the sister I know.
Quit acting weak.
Take a shower.
I'll do it later.
Shower now.
Weird, isn't it?
But I like having people
cooking in the kitchen.
I'm usually by myself.
Dyah doesn't cook?
Dyah is sick.
She's sick?
What illness?
What was it called again? Leu…
Leukemia.
Blood cancer.
She shouldn't move around too much.
Go rest if you're tired.
No, Mom. I'm okay.
Here.
I got this.
-Are you sure?
-Yeah.
Don't push yourself.
I know.
I wish
the kitchen wasn't only busy
when there's a gathering.
It's been so quiet here
since you all moved to Surabaya.
But your dad is back
with such an unfortunate event.
So how did Dad's body end up here?
Long ago,
someone who was supernatural
used to live in this village.
He knew black magic
that brought him blessings.
But…
this power came with a curse.
A curse?
He couldn't pass on,
stuck in the state of dying,
unable to die.
Is that why Dad's body came back here?
Your uncle knows this best.
Come on. Just help me out.
Look at what you did.
It's because you didn't respect my will.
Help.
Help me!
My gosh!
Blood! Oh my god…
My gosh.
Uncle.
Calm down.
Ladies, gentlemen.
Stop the prayer session.
Let's wash the body again.
What's wrong, sir?
I can't stand it.
Didn't this happen
during Mr. Rajiman's burial too?
Dyah's grandpa?
His body was difficult to bury too.
The same thing happened.
It happens with Jiwo Warsito too.
Hey, it happened 50 years ago.
Please don't talk about it here.
Respect my brother.
-Please.
-We'll go back first.
Dad.
Don't overthink it.
Please. My family is mourning.
I was just saying. I'm not sure either.
But what if Hadi was practicing it?
-I'll check what's going on.
-That's enough.
We're trying to help the late Mr. Hadi.
Saras.
-Yudhis!
-Saras!
Something's wrong here.
Are you okay?
What happened to you?
Did something happen to you too?
Uncle, what's going on?
So you heard from your aunt.
The black magic was passed down
to your dad.
But you should know.
Those who inherit this magic
struggle to die
if they don't let go of it.
That's why, before the Islamic burial,
something must be done to sever the magic.
The burial must occur on a Kliwon Friday.
I don't get what you're saying,
but that's not possible.
If I push Dad's funeral to Friday,
that's still two days away.
It started with your great-grandpa,
then your grandpa, and now your dad.
What are you saying?
Nonsense.
Yudhis.
Saras.
You must understand.
If the black magic isn't severed,
it could pass on to one of you.
Either Yudhis or Saras.
Your dad knew his time was coming.
Your businesses are going bankrupt, right?
That means he needs a new successor.
Your dad's will is to sever the magic.
What happens
if the black magic isn't broken?
One lives,
one dies.
The blessings come with a price.
Your dad chose to inherit the magic
to save you, Yudhis,
when you almost died at birth.
No.
No, Auntie.
-So Mom died because…
-No. Auntie.
-Saras.
-Mom died from an illness,
not some black magic
or anything like that.
Let's go to bed, Yudhis.
Saras. We have to bury your dad
on Kliwon Friday.
It's for your sake!
Say "Mom" with me.
You…
One, two… Dad.
-On the count of three, say "Mom."
-Dad.
One, two, three…
-Mom.
-What if Uncle was telling the truth?
That means I killed Mom.
Yudhis.
How can you say that? Of course not.
But it's clear now.
That explains all the strange happenings
since Dad died.
Now we'll follow Dad's will.
Bury him according to Islamic customs.
No magic severance.
No need to wait for Kliwon Friday.
But if what Uncle Setyo says is true,
then Dad has committed shirk.
It's an unforgivable sin
in the eyes of God.
And if it's true
that it must be passed down to one of us,
it's between you and me.
What do we do?
Trust Uncle Setyo or follow Dad's will?
Saras.
I want to stay with Dad.
Pray for him.
I wasn't with him when he died.
My Lord, forgive me and my parents,
and have mercy on them
as they brought me up when I was small.
Hang in there, dear.
We all believe you'll get better.
You should go check on Saras and Yudhis.
I feel sorry for them.
They have to deal
with something like this.
I miss the lively you.
We know you'll survive.
You'll be healthy again.
Go to bed, Saras. It's late.
Yeah.
Yudhis.
Yudhis!
Auntie!
Yudhis.
Are you okay?
What's the matter?
-Yudhis.
-Go to bed, Saras.
Please don't leave me, Yudhis.
Saras.
Go to bed.
Yudhis…
Let's go home.
Why won't you grant my wish?
Auntie!
Saras.
Why are you screaming? It's late.
What?
Yudhis.
-Are you okay?
-Why wouldn't I?
Are you okay?
Saras.
So what do we do?
Follow Uncle Setyo or Dad's will?
Saras.
It's raining.
I know it's raining.
-Is this another curse?
-We can't delay this any longer.
-Peace be upon you.
-And upon you.
Excuse me.
You saw what happened last night.
I don't want anything worse
to happen to Yudhis.
I just want to give Dad a burial.
It's been almost three days.
It's raining, Saras. I told you.
No! He will never find peace
if we keep delaying it!
-Saras.
-It has to be done today.
Calm down, Saras.
We have to bury him on Kliwon Friday.
That's the only way.
Ustad!
Islam says he should be buried
right away, right?
We can't delay it any longer!
There's blood, Ustad!
-Blood?
-Ustad!
My gosh.
Look, it's the curse!
We have to delay this, Ustad.
Keep going!
-Saras.
-Keep going!
Let's move. Come on.
Saras!
Let's go.
Please take the water out.
Ustad. Let's start.
Come on!
-No way.
-My gosh.
-What do we do?
-We can't continue like this!
-Calm down.
-Are we going to dig it up again?
-Stay calm.
-Calm down.
-This is horrible.
-God, have mercy.
-My gosh.
Calm down.
Saras, it looks like we have to wait.
Saras.
It's been three days, Uncle!
It's been three days since he's gone!
I keep failing, Yudhis.
How will Dad find peace?
How will we…
We'll find a way.
Eat something, Saras.
We'll be in trouble if you get sick.
We're burying Dad tomorrow.
What if something happens tomorrow
and we still can't bury him?
Don't say that.
How?
I keep failing to carry out his will.
Me too, Saras.
I failed as his son.
Maybe nobody came because they were tired.
It was raining hard.
I hope so.
Poor Dad.
No one prayed for him.
It's your responsibility to pray for him.
What do you mean?
For the dead,
their sins can be erased
by continuous charity
and prayers from their pious children.
Don't overthink it.
Yes, Ustad.
I should get going.
Of course, Ustad.
Ustad.
Thank you for accompanying us.
You didn't have to.
Send my regards to your wife.
See you.
-Peace be upon you.
-And upon you.
I think
the locals suspect your dad
was practicing black magic.
That's why nobody came.
So do we really have to bury Dad
on Kliwon Friday?
That's right.
But there's something
we must do before that.
What is it, Uncle?
The way
to sever the black magic.
One lives, one dies.
Your family's blood has sealed the pact.
I've kept my promise to your father.
Now it's your turn to keep yours.
One of you must go with me.
Die. In hell, burned by fire.
I came to collect a soul.
We don't have much time.
Don't be scared, Saras.
The grave collapsed yesterday.
What's next?
It has to be because
he practiced black magic.
I think you're right. After all…
What's that noise?
It's like something is rustling.
Hey.
From there?
I don't know.
-Gosh.
-My gosh.
My gosh.
What's that?
We'll share this with the neighbors
so they won't get suspicious.
Uncle.
Is this
really the only way?
Saras. How about splitting up
to make it quick?
Okay?
-I'll go over there.
-Okay.
Saras.
I'll go here.
Is that for the corpse?
Don't.
You'll get sick.
I'm only ill, not dying.
I can still help.
Wait.
I've been wondering.
Is my dad
the only one
who's had his burial delayed like this?
No one else in the village had,
but Grandpa Rajiman's was like this too.
Why did you ask?
What?
Yudhis.
Dyah.
Do you have Grandpa Rajiman's Yasin book?
Yeah, in the storage room.
Along with the Yasin books
from our ancestors.
What's the matter?
Can I see it?
It's all on Suro 14th.
Dad.
Open up!
Open up.
Where were you when I died?
I was born from fire.
You, from the earth.
I've fulfilled your wishes.
Your ancestors were my slaves.
Now it's your turn.
Dyah, help me!
Help!
Help me.
Open up!
Dyah, help me!
Open, please! Dyah!
What?
Auntie!
-Saras?
Saras.
What's wrong?
You've been chosen as the heir.
What's wrong with you, Yudhis?
Nothing.
But you were screaming in there.
Forget it.
You…
Saras.
Yudhis.
Suro 14th.
They all died on Suro 14th.
Uncle never told us about this.
Something's not adding up.
We'll bury Dad on Kliwon Friday.
Saras.
We'll follow Dad's will.
You said that before.
We'll bury him
according to Islamic customs.
We tried. And it failed every time.
-No, Saras.
-Then what should I do?
No. No way.
I don't believe that.
This is your fault, Yudhis.
What are you saying?
How does it feel knowing
you're the cause of Mom's death?
Saras.
Do you realize
that if you weren't born…
Saras.
…your mother, your father,
and your sister
could have lived happily without you?
For centuries,
your family has been my home.
This village.
The blood in your sister's body.
Your family's legacy will be a curse
for your descendants.
Everyone
will die.
Your father, your mother.
Saras!
Saras.
-Saras!
Saras!
Let him go!
No! Let go! Saras!
Saras.
-Saras.
-Saras!
-Let him go!
Dad!
Saras.
Dyah.
Yudhis.
Excuse me.
-Sorry to bother you.
-What?
Can I ask you a favor?
No.
Sir, ma'am. Excuse me.
You damn heretic family!
Let's go inside.
-Miss.
-Don't talk to me.
What is this, Uncle?
What's going to happen to me?
I'm sorry, Saras.
I have no choice.
Your dad did this to save Yudhis.
Now I'm doing it for Dyah.
She's critical. There's no hope.
Yudhis.
Sir, please wait. Can I ask for a favor?
Sir.
Let me go.
I couldn't make my own child happy.
Let me go, Uncle.
I'm sorry, Saras.
Dyah!
Help me, Dyah!
-Mom?
-Forgive me.
Forgive me, Dyah.
What's happening? Mom.
We're doing this for your sake.
We just want you to be healthy.
Help me, Dyah!
Yudhis.
-Where are you going?
-Ustad.
What's wrong?
I need your help, Ustad. It's my sister.
-She's been dragged into a ritual.
-A ritual?
-Please help, Ustad.
-Let's go.
A long time ago,
the villagers made a pact with spirits.
Then Sunan arrived to give their blessings
and everything returned to normal.
Unless someone passes on the black magic.
What about my grandpa's burial, Rajiman?
There was a weird incident,
but there was no proof of black magic.
So it was just gossip.
Come on.
Wait, Ustad.
What is this?
I found it near Dad's corpse.
Kanthil flower.
It's used to call spirits.
Someone messed with your dad's corpse.
-Come on.
-Okay.
This isn't right, Uncle.
I'll help you if that's what you want,
but not like this!
We'll find the solution together.
-Uncle.
-I had to make
Hadi come back.
I summoned the black magic
inside your dad's body
with a kanthil flower.
So you couldn't bury him.
So you wouldn't inherit
the black magic right away.
I needed time to perform this ritual
even though our family
has never done it before.
I had to dirty his corpse with blood.
I had to try everything
to delay the burial,
so you'd inherit the black magic,
and I could perform this ritual.
-Dyah.
-Yudhis.
-Are you okay?
-What's wrong?
-Yudhis.
Please help Saras.
-I brought Ustad.
-My parents.
Calm her down.
-Yes.
-My parents are trying to hurt Saras.
-Let's go, Ustad.
-Yudhis.
Hey, you heretic family!
-Hypocrite!
-Everyone, please settle down.
Your family is still
-practicing black magic?
-Calm down.
The people here could face punishment.
-That's right.
-Damn you, Yudhis!
-Calm down!
Uncle, don't do this.
Then I can take that magic from you.
Dyah!
To save Dyah.
But this isn't right, Uncle.
We can find the solution together.
Let me go.
Which means,
as the vessel of this magic, you must die
so I can take it from you.
Please.
Don't do this, Uncle.
Stop it! Silence!
Yudhis is asking for help.
This problem will never end
if you continue doing this.
Now I ask all of you to go to the mosque
and perform the funeral prayer
for the late Mr. Hadi.
-What are you saying?
-What is this nonsense?
Go now.
-Please, everyone.
-Wait.
Now.
Dear.
Dear!
I'm sorry.
It's all my fault…
I pray for the deceased,
Hadi Warsito, the son of Rajiman,
with four takbirs as an obligation
in the role of an Imam, for Allah.
Allahu akbar.
-Allahu akbar.
Saras.
Those who ask to be my servant
must be prepared to die by fire.
Dad!
Dear.
-Mom!
-Dyah, no.
-Dyah.
Recite all the prayers you know.
No, don't.
I seek refuge with God from the devil.
In God's name,
Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
Praise be to God, Lord of all worlds.
The Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
Master of the Day of Judgment.
You alone we worship,
-and You alone we ask for help.
-Ustad.
-Guide us on the Straight Path.
-Wait here.
The path of those
who have received Your grace,
-not those You are displeased with
-Saras.
-or those gone astray.
In God's name,
Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
-There is no God but Him, the Eternal.
-I'll help.
-He never gets tired or sleeps.
-Help.
Everything in the heavens
and the earth belongs to Him.
Who is it that can intercede with Him
except by His permission?
He knows what is before them
and what will be after them.
And they encompass not a thing
of His knowledge except for what He wills.
His Seat extends
over the heavens and the earth,
and their preservation tires Him not.
He is the Most Great.
My gosh.
In God's name,
Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
-Say, "He is Allah, who is One,
-Help me.
-Allah, the Eternal Refuge.
-Wake up, Saras.
He neither begets nor is born.
-Nor is there to Him any equivalent."
-Saras.
In God's name,
Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
Have you forgotten your ancestors' past?
And from the evil of an envier
when he envies.
In God's name,
Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
Say, "I seek refuge
in the Lord of mankind.
The Sovereign of mankind.
The God of mankind.
From the evil of the retreating whisperer.
Who whispers evil
into the breasts of mankind.
-From among the jinn and mankind."
-Saras.
In God's name,
Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
-O' assembly of jinn and humans!
-Saras!
If you can penetrate beyond the realms
of the heavens and the earth.
Then do so, you will not pass
without Our authority.
-Saras!
-I take refuge with Allah's Perfect Words
-You're destined to die.
-from the evils of all He has created.
Stop, Saras!
That's Yudhis, your little brother!
-There is no God but Allah.
I take refuge with Allah's Perfect Words
from the evils of all that He has created.
-There is no God but Allah.
-I take refuge with Allah's Perfect Words
-from the evils of all He has created.
There is no God but Allah, and I bear
witness that Muhammad is the Messenger.
My gosh.
Saras.
Wake up, Saras.
Indeed, God promised you the true promise.
And I also promised you,
but I betrayed you.
I had no authority over you
except that I called you,
and you responded to me.
So do not blame me, but blame yourselves.
Get down, Dad.
I cannot save you,
nor can you save me.
Indeed, I deny your association of me,
with Allah, before.
Indeed, for the wrongdoers
is a painful punishment.
I take refuge with Allah's Perfect Words
from the evils of all that He has created.
There is no God but Allah, and I bear
witness that Muhammad is the Messenger.
God is the Greatest!
-Dad.
Saras, Yudhis.
Carry your dad while reciting Shahada.
Mom.
I bear witness
that there is no God but Allah,
and I bear witness that Muhammad
is the Messenger of Allah.
I've made peace, Dad.
Rest in peace, Dad.
Dyah.
I don't know what to do, Saras.
I don't have anyone now.
Dyah.
You have me and Yudhis.
Okay?
Let's go.
Give it here. I'll carry it.